# Delivery

### About the application
This is a supermarket delivery system which starts from website on the internet that allows any person on the internet to view the supermarket products in a beautiful card view that contains all the required information about the product (product name, category, decription, price, and a picture for the product), also he can make search in the products with many criteria (product category, price, name or title). However no one can make purchase request until he get logged in or of course register first if he isn't already has an acount on the website and his registeration must include his address and phone for it's crucial in the home delivery part. As soon as the user logged in to the web application he has the capability to add the viewed products into his cart in the quantity that he needs, the user or the customer can add different products as many as he likes in the same cart defining the required quantity of each product.
The system will automaticaly calculate the total price of each product multipling the quantity the customer entered by the price of the item for each product separately showing it in detail through a well organized table which shows in its last record the total cost of all chosen items in USD.
Then the customer has the choice to continue the purshase or roll back, if the user decided to continue all that he needs is to click a button that will take all the selected items with its quantities and create a new purchase ORDER. Once an order has been created the user can follow it's status which can be either "Preparing" or "Submitted" from a user friendly view board. Also in the same moment the supermarket operator received the order in the operator's dash board. So he can now manage to prepare the order, and as soon as the order is ready he can asign it to one of the three delivery men registred in the market and this will change the order status from "Preparing" into "Submitted". The delivery man also has access to the application to see only the orders assigned to him and change these orders status to "delivered" after he delivered it and and recieved the cash from the customer.
By these steps we have offered our supermarket products though the internet and handled the work steps supported by web technology to give the customer easy and comfortable purchase service unitl delivering his orders to his home or work or whatever address he was used in the registeration. And because of we use the information the user entered in the regiseration especially phone and address in the delivery process, the application designed to give every user the capiblity to change his profile information including (phone, address) so customer shouldn't worry losing our services if they changed their residency, work place or phone numbers. Also every user can change his password if he wanted and the system save all passwords encrypted in a database, so no one even the administrator of the system can know it.
One last thing I want to mention in this section that all this works starts from the data entry function which i added to allow a user with data entry permissions to insert and register items and new products to the store, also he can edit the product attributes like (name, description, price, picture, or even the product's availability on the supermarket store), for example if the data entry acquainted that some product is been out of stock, he can update this product record that it's not available, so it will be removed from the offered products in the website. Once the supermarket receive shipment of this product the data entry can update it's value to be available again and this will reinsert it the products preview section in the websit.
Thanks..

